#summary (smt)2 Content Management System overview
#labels Featured

= Introduction =

You may log in as the superuser (username *root*) in order to have full access to all CMS features. That user is created when installing (smt2) for the first time.

= Extensions overview =

The (smt)^2.0^ CMS is composed by _extensions_ (aka _functional modules_ or simply _sections_). When new extensions are available, just upload them to the `/smt2/admin/ext/` dir and the system will install them automatically for your convenience -- You will be warned on the _Dashboard_ section. 

== Dashboard ==

This is the admin base dir. Here you will check your database server status and new (smt) ^2.0^ releases.

== Customize ==

Here you can set the basic CMS options, change the extensions' order priority, and customize the visualization options. More features will be addded in a future.

== Tracking Report ==

This is the most featured extension. Here you will manage all tracked visits (visualize, analyze and delete). You can sort the records table by client ID, date and session time.

== Roles ==

This extension is designed to give you the ability to control and assign what users can and cannot do in the CMS. The default role is named _admin_, and it is the role that the *root* user belongs to. 

You can assign users to the _admin_ role, with almost wide access. However, the *root* user is the only account that can enjoy all CMS features (i.e: create, assign and delete roles).

Read more about roles and capabilities on the [http://code.google.com/p/smt2/wiki/roles roles wiki].

== Users ==

On that section you can add new users, and assign them certain roles. Users with the _admin_ role can create new users, but they won't assign roles to them. Again, the *root* user is the only one that can do these kind of things (i.e: also update and delete all registered accounts).


= Creating custom extensions =

If you know how the CMS works, you can create your own extensions. Please read the PHP API documentation for better understanding.